---
layout: post
title: SSL/TLS description
date: 2024-01-05 21:01:00
description: summary about SSL/TLS
tags: ssl, tls
categories: sample-posts
thumbnail: assets/img/9.jpg
---

Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a cryptographic protocol designed to provide communications security over a computer network. The protocol is widely used in applications such as email, instant messaging, and voice over IP, but its use in securing HTTPS remains the most publicly visible.

The TLS protocol aims primarily to provide security, including privacy (confidentiality), integrity, and authenticity through the use of cryptography, such as the use of certificates, between two or more communicating computer applications. It runs in the presentation layer and is itself composed of two layers: the TLS record and the TLS handshake protocols.

The closely related Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) is a communications protocol that provides security to datagram-based applications. In technical writing, references to "(D)TLS" are often seen when it applies to both versions.

TLS is a proposed Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) standard, first defined in 1999, and the current version is TLS 1.3, defined in August 2018. TLS builds on the now-deprecated SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) specifications (1994, 1995, 1996) developed by Netscape Communications for adding the HTTPS protocol to their Navigator web browser.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/ssl1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/ssl2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

TLS 1.2 was defined in RFC 5246 in August 2008.[23] It is based on the earlier TLS 1.1 specification. Major differences include:

The MD5 and SHA-1 combination in the pseudorandom function (PRF) was replaced with SHA-256, with an option to use cipher suite specified PRFs.
The MD5 and SHA-1 combination in the finished message hash was replaced with SHA-256, with an option to use cipher suite specific hash algorithms. However, the size of the hash in the finished message must still be at least 96 bits.
The MD5 and SHA-1 combination in the digitally signed element was replaced with a single hash negotiated during handshake, which defaults to SHA-1.
Enhancement in the client's and server's ability to specify which hashes and signature algorithms they accept.
Expansion of support for authenticated encryption ciphers, used mainly for Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) and CCM mode of Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) encryption.
TLS Extensions definition and AES cipher suites were added.
All TLS versions were further refined in RFC 6176 in March 2011, removing their backward compatibility with SSL such that TLS sessions never negotiate the use of Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) version 2.0. There is currently no formal date for TLS 1.2 to be deprecated.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/ssl3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/ssl4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>